# Running arbitrary python scripts on HPS
This example shows how arbitrary python scripts can be run on HPS, by using [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) to generate 
the required environments on the fly.

The example sets up a project that will plot `sin(x)` using numpy and matplotlib, and then save 
the figure to a file.

The main feature enabling uv to take care of the environment setup is the metadata header present 
in the `eval.py` script, which defines the dependencies:

```python
# /// script
# requires-python = "==3.12"
# dependencies = [
#     "numpy",
#     "matplotlib"
# ]
# ///
```

More information can be found [here (python.org)](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/inline-script-metadata/#inline-script-metadata) and [here (astral.sh)](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/scripts/#running-a-script-with-dependencies).

# Prerequisites
In order for the example to run, `uv` must be installed and registered on the scaler/evaluator. 
Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/).

Once uv is installed, the application must be registered in the scaler/evaluator with the following properties:

| **Property**      | **Value**                 |
|-------------------|---------------------------|
|   Name            |   uv                      |
|   Version         |  0.6.14                   | 
| Installation Path | /path/to/uv               |
| Executable        | /path/to/uv/bin/uv        |

Note that the version should be adjusted to the case at hand. 

## Custom cache directory
The above steps setup uv with the cache located in its default location in the user home directory (~/.cache/uv). 
Depending on the individual situation, other cache locations may be preferred, such as a shared directory 
accessible to all evaluators. In order to define a custom uv cache directory, the following environment variable can be added to 
the uv application registration in the scaler/evaluator:

| **Env Variable** | **Value**                            |
|------------------|--------------------------------------|
| UV_CACHE_DIR     | /path/to/custom/uv/cache/dir         |

## Airgapped setups
For airgapped setups where no internet connectivity is available, there are several options for a 
successful uv setup:

1. Pre-populate the uv cache with all desired dependencies.
2. Provide a local python package index, and set uv to use it. More information can be found
[here](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/configuration/indexes/). This index could then sit in a shared 
location, with node-local caching applied.
3. Use pre-generated virtual environments, see [here](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/reference/cli/#uv-venv)

In order to disable network access, one can either set the `UV_OFFLINE` environment variable, or 
use the `--offline` flag with many uv commands. 

# Running the example
To run the example, execute the `project_setup.py` script, for example via `uv run project_setup.py`.
This will setup a project with a number of jobs, and each job will generate a `plot.png` file.


## Options
The example supports the following command line arguments:

| **Flag**               | **Example** | **Description**                                                              |
|------------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| -U, --url              | --url=https://localhost:8443/hps |URL of the target HPS instance                           |
| -u, --username         | --username=repuser               |Username to log into HPS                                 |
| -p, --password         | --password=topSecret             |Password to log into HPS                                 |
| -j, --num-jobs         | --num-jobs=10                    |Number of jobs to generate                               |

## Files
The relevant files of the example are:

- `project_setup.py`: Handles all communication with the HPS instance. Defines the project and 
generates the jobs.
- `eval.py`: The script that is evaluated on HPS. Contains the code to plot a sine, and then save 
the figure.
- `exec_script.py`: Execution script that uses uv to run the evaluation script. Also cleans up the 
venv generated by uv.